Hey welcome everyone I hope that
everyone here is very excited about Vim.
I'm very excited about Vim, and
I'm kind of known as someone that gets
a little yelling and screaming about vim.
So I'll try to tone it down a little bit,
and
help you guys get focused
up an awesome adventure.
So we're gonna kinda go
through this this day,
hopefully we'll be able to stick to
most of this, we'll see how it goes.
We're gonna start with just some basic
introduction some hopefully some
motivational material.
After that I'm gonna
go through the basics.
Now we're gonna start pretty basic, and
we're gonna move from there because I
don't know what level everyone's at, and
it's best just to assume
the most basic and go forward.
Eventually we'll touch on the VimRC.
We'll touch on navigating files,
going through things, marks, etc.
We'll do some recapping some plugins,
some quick fix lists,
some advanced tech manipulation, even
writing your first little bit of a plugin.
And eventually,
I will then just get on here and
pontificate about what I think
is the greatest way to use them.
That's kinda the ending, and so
when we're kinda going through this,
you'll notice that my Vim looks ugly,
that the experience isn't that nice.
That's because we're
gonna start with nothing.
And we're gonna slowly
make it into something.
Now vim is not a batteries
included editor.
When you use VS code,
everything's included the open it up,
looks really nice you click
around with your mouse.
Hopefully by the end of this,
you'll just take your mouse and
gently placed in the garbage and
you'll never have to use it again.
And you'll be able to fly on your
keyboard and it'll be fantastic.
All right, so we're gonna go through this
if you don't know there is a Gatsby course
I believe I'll be linking it here,
if you go there, you can follow along.
You don't necessarily have to follow along
any link that I'll be asking you to curl
down and edit with Vim.
I will just be pasting in the chat, so
you don't have to worry a lot about that.
>> All right, so, like anything in life,
a huge thing that affects our life
is always our small decisions.
You're gonna be presented with a few
large decisions in your lifetime,
and those will greatly alter your life but
it's like a single moment.
But a lot of the things that
determine our destination,
aren't those big moments, right?
And you can't control those big moments
you don't know when they're gonna happen,
you don't know how they're gonna happen.
It's the little things that
really you can take control of,
like something as simple as just
brushing your teeth every day.
Obviously, you're gonna
have great teeth health and
you'll have reduced risk of heart attack
all these different things go into it.
Just by making really small decisions,
and there's I've been really hard.
Same with typing, if you practice if you
take it seriously, if you don't look at
your keyboard, you'll get really good at
typing and your efficiency will go way up.
And that is something that you just
simply have to do day in and day out,
and it's not like it's gonna
make you a better developer.
But you'll be, thinking less about typing,
you'll be thinking less about the thing
you have to do, and
more about the thing you're doing.
And so it's just the little decisions, in
Vim is like one of those little decisions.
You simply have to commit to it,
you have to learn about it,
you have to practice each of
the little moves, and throughout time,
it'll get better and better and better and
you'll get faster and faster and faster.
But Vim is kinda weird, right?
For those that haven't opened up Vim, if
you open up Vim, it probably feels arcane,
esoteric, strange, and
then you don't know how to quit.
And then you become a meme that
exists all over the Internet and
you can't quit Vim and
we all laugh at you, right?
So it's a weird piece of software.
So I kinda wanted to show how did Vim get
started or what, was before VIM really?
So I'm gonna give you the most brief, and
partially incorrect history
of how VIM got started.
So I'm gonna jump back over here.
And just for a moment,
I'm gonna open up a program called ED.
ED came before VIM,
technically it was expert like I said
it's partially incorrect history of VIM.
So I'm just gonna open up a file.
So let's find the file,
we can open up what the README,
I'm gonna open up the readme with ed.
And when I do that, if I hit Enter,
it's gonna give me just a number.
So if you're a developer today,
how do you edit this file?
Anyone have an idea?
You probably don't, because I don't even
I'm not even sure I start hitting Enter,
It starts saying question marks for me.
Like how did anyone develop anything
at some point in their lifetime on ed?
Well, it turns out a lot of the software,
foundationally that was
developed was developed in this.
So you can actually start typing in like
line numbers, let me see number one, okay.
Then you can hit Enter, and
you can like walk through the file.
If I wanted to make say like,
I want to edit see,
let's just see what's on line 15.
Okay, so we wanna make an edit,
I can type in s/ability,
and just say aboutily.
All right, there we go.
I've just changed the line, I am now
a programmer, I've used ed, right and
there's some other ways you can edit
text and do things with ed, but
this is how life was at one point, right?
I mean think about coming
from the punch cards.
How great is this from punch cards?
This is phenomenal.
Right but for us this looks strange.
This is like I would never be able
to do anything effective in this,
cuz I couldn't remember where
I was anything like that.
So to quit, you got to press quit then you
press quit again because I didn't save my
changes, or maybe I saved my changes.
I actually don't even know
what I just did there.
We'll just assume that
everything went well.
And so that's it.
I think overall,
that just feels too strange,
I wouldn't recommend getting good at it,
you can, it'll be kind of like,
hipster funny, but that's about as good
as it will be and so we'll move on.
So ed during that time, about 1974,
a guy named Bill Joy or 1976,
decided he's gonna write something
that's a little bit better.
And he writes visual mode,
which becomes known as VI.
And VI is effectively
where VIM comes from.
And so he wrote this a long time ago,
back then,
you couldn't get more
than 1K worth of RAM.
If you think about that, I think VS
code takes one terabyte of RAM or
something like that, I'm not exactly
sure how many gigawatts it takes, but
I know it's a lot of RAM.
And so imagine if you had,
effectively none,
I don't even think you can spell
electron with 1k, it's very, very small.
And so he wrote VI, for
very small systems, and
one of the hard parts is that Emacs during
that time costed hundreds of dollars.
So not only could you get emacs panky,
you'd also have an editor whose
learning curve looks like this.
Very difficult but, you'd hopefully it
figured out eventually you couldn't
differentiate it at any point cuz
it's just confusing out there.
But, you could pay hundreds of dollars for
emacs or you could use ed,
bill made VI, things are looking good.
But then, when you start using VI,
you're like, wow, why is it H, J,
K and L for movement?
Right?
I mean,
if you're using Linux at all this is very
foundational, H, J, K and L is everywhere.
I think it's in Twitter, it's in Gmail,
so how did that get started?
Well, it turns out Bill Joy, may have been
the only person on earth that had this
keyboard, but he had the keyboard.
H, J, K, L now had the arrow keys,
you I mean, it could have been was the.
But now it's H, J, K, L now and that's
just how life works, momentum, right?
And so Bill Joy, he did eventually quit
using vim and started using emacs.
And when he did that he kinda left us
with a little bit of words of wisdom.
And his words of wisdom of course was
people didn't know that VI was written for
a world that doesn't exist anymore.
In other words, what he was trying to say
is that, VI was originally written so
he could edit code at home, and
all he had was a 300 baud rate modem.
Now, I'm pretty sure that if you
looked in chat or anyone here,
they most people probably don't even know
what a ,it's not a term we really use,
it effectively just means bits per second.
So that means he had a 300 bit per second,
modem, a character usually takes about
eight bits, back then they probably just
had ASCII 256 so it was just eight bits.
And that's all they had.
And so that means you could get 300
characters a second to come into
your file.
So, it was written for
a world that was much, much different,
today on this internet
that I'm here right now.
The internet that I'm using
right now is technically,
3.3 million times faster,
than what he wrote VI four.
So it's, life's improved a little bit but,
here's the deal is that just
because a world that existed and
you wrote a tool for that world doesn't
mean it's not applicable still today.
And vi has gone through a lot of changes,
it went from vi to an editor called
Stevie in which nobody knows about, and
I'm not even sure how to get to an editor
called vim, which was based on Stevie.
And eventually vi was open sourced,
but vi was long since deprecated, and
then became the de facto standard.
Vim was also written
by guy's name is Bram,
it's been contribute to a whole bunch.
It's really picked up steam in the last
few years as somehow a comeback editor
because people are just really
realizing how effective and
how awesome it actually is.
And so, I'm here today and
hopefully we can kinda take that, and
make it into something and everyone can at
least leave here knowing what's available.